## Math 515 homework

### Homework 8. Due Friday, November 3
* Ex 15.1 (Tao, ex 1.7.9(i)). Let $(X,\mathcal A,\mu_0)$ be a premeasure and let $(X,\mathcal B,\mu)$ be the Carath\'eodory extension. Show that for any $B\in\mathcal B$ there exists $C$ in the $\sigma$-algebra generated by $\mathcal A$ such that $B\subset C$ and $\mu(C\setminus B)=0$.
* Ex 15.2 (Tao, ex 1.7.9(ii)(iii)). Let $(X,\mathcal A,\mu_0)$ be a premeasure, $\mu^\*$ the corresponding outer measure, and $(X,\mathcal B,\mu)$ the Carath\'eodory extension. Show that for any set $B$ such that $\mu^\*(B)&lt;\infty$, we have $B\in\mathcal B$ if and only if for all $\epsilon&gt;0$ there exists $A\in\mathcal A$ such that $\mu^\*(A\triangle B)<\epsilon$.
* Ex 16.1 (See Tao, ex 1.4.29).
    * Show that $f$ is measurable if and only if $f^+$ and $f^-$ are measurable.
    * Show that sums and products of measurable functions are measurable.
* Ex 16.2 (See Tao, ex 1.4.36). Establish the support truncation property: if $A\_n$ is a sequence of measurable sets such that $A\_n\subset A\_{n+1}$ and $\bigcup A\_n=X$, then $\int f\chi_{A\_n}\,d\mu\to\int f\,d\mu$.

### Homework 7. Due Wednesday, October 25
* Ex 13.1 (Tao, ex 1.44, 1.45).
  * Let $A\_n$ be measurable sets and assume that $\sum m(A\_n)<\infty$. Show that almost every $x\in\RR^d$ is contained in at most finitely many of the $A\_n$. [Hint: Use Tonelli's theorem on the functions $\chi\_{A\_n}$.] This is the Borel--Cantelli lemma.
  * Give a counterexample to the above conclusion, showing that the hypothesis $\sum m(A\_n)<\infty$ cannot be replaced by the weaker condition $\lim m(A\_n)=0$.
* Ex 14.1 (Tao, ex 1.4.26). Let $\mu$ be a measure on $(X,\mathcal B)$. Show that $\mathcal B$ can be extended to $\sigma$-algebra $\hat{\mathcal B}$ and $\mu$ to a measure $\hat\mu$ on $(X,\hat{\mathcal B})$ in such a way that $\hat\mu$ is complete.
* Ex 14.2 (Tao, ex 1.4.49). Let $f$ be a nonnegative Lebesgue measurable function. Show that $\mu(A)=\int f\chi\_A$ is a measure.
* Ex 14.3 (Tao, ex 1.7.6). Give an example of a finitely additive measure that is not a premeasure. [Hint: work on the measurable space $(\NN,\mathcal P(\NN))$ and define $\mu_0$ separately for finite and infinite sets.]

### Homework 6. Due Wednesday, October 18
* Ex 11.1 (Tao, ex 1.3.13). Let $f$ be a nonnegative measurable function on $\RR$. Show that $\int f$ is equal to the $2$-dimensional Lebesgue measure of the region ${(x,y)\mid 0\leq y\leq f(x)}$
* Ex 11.2 (Tao, ex 1.3.18). Let $f$ be an nonnegative measurable function on $\RR^d$.
  * Show that if $\int f&lt;\infty$ then $f$ is finite almost everywhere. Give a counterexample to show that the converse is false.
  * Show that $\int f=0$ if and only if $f=0$ almost everywhere.
* Ex 11.3. Give an example of a nonnegative function which is measurable, but has different lower and upper Lebesgue integrals.
* Ex 12.1 (Tao, ex 1.3.25(i)). Let $f$ be absolutely integrable. Show that for any $\epsilon&gt;0$ there exists a bounded measurable set $A$ such that $\int |f|\chi\_{A^c}&lt;\epsilon$.
* Ex 12.2 (Tao ex 1.3.25(ii)). Let $f$ be a nonnegative measurable function with which is finite almost everywhere. (Note Tao has a typo hypo here.) Show that for any $\epsilon&gt;0$, there exists a measurable set $A$ such that $m(A)&lt;\epsilon$ and $f$ is locally bounded outside of $A$. In other words, for every $n$ there exists $M$ such that for all $x\in[-n,n]^d\setminus A$ we have $f(x)\leq M$.

### Homework 5. Due Wednesday, October 11

* Ex 9.1 Show that a function $f$ is simple if and only if it can be expressed as $f=\sum\_1^kc_i\chi\_{A\_i}$, where $A\_i$ are (not necessarily disjoint) Lebesgue measurable sets.
* Ex 9.2 (see Tao, ex 1.3.1). Show that the simple integral satisfies the properties:
  * (finiteness) $\sint f\<\infty$ if and only if $f$ is finite almost everywhere and supported on a set of finite measure
  * (vanishing) $\sint f=0$ if and only if $f=0$ almost everywhere
  * (normality) $\sint\chi_A=m(A)$ for any Lebesgue measurable set $A$
* Ex 10.1. Show that $\lim x\_n=x$ if and only if $\liminf x\_n=x=\limsup x\_n$.
* Ex 10.3 (Tao, ex 1.3.4). Show that if $f$ is a bounded, nonnegative measurable function on $\RR^d$, then there is a sequence of bounded simple functions $f_n$ which converges uniformly to $f$ (not just pointwise).
* Ex 10.4 (Tao, ex 1.3.5). Let $f$ be a nonnegative function on $\RR^d$. Show that $f$ is simple if and only if $f$ is measurable and takes on at most finitely many values.

### Homework 4. Due Friday, September 29

* Ex 7.1 (see Tao, ex 1.2.7). (a) Show that $A$ is measurable iff for all $\epsilon>0$ there exists a closed set $F\subset A$ such that $m^\*(A\setminus F)&lt;\epsilon$. (b) Show that $A$ is measurable iff for all $\epsilon>0$ there exists a measurable set $B$ such that $m^\*(A\triangle B)<\epsilon$.
* Ex 7.2 (Tao, ex 1.2.14). Show that any set $A$ is contained in a Lebesgue measurable set $B$ such that $m(B)=m^\*(A)$.
* Ex 7.3 (Tao, ex 1.2.15). Show the \emph{inner regularity} property: If $A$ is Lebesgue measurable, then m(A)=\sup\set{m(K)\mid K\subset A,\text{ $K$ compact}}
* Ex 8.1 (Tao, ex 1.2.11(iii)). Give a counterexample showing that the hypothesis that some $A_n$ has finite measure is necessary for the downwards MCT.
* Ex 8.2 (Tao, ex 1.2.12). Suppose you know that $m$ satisfies $m(\emptyset)=0$ and the countable additivity property. Show that $m$ satisfies the monotonicity property and the countable subadditivity property (for measurable sets).

### Homework 3. Due Friday, September 15

* Ex 5.1 (Tao, ex 1.2.1). Show that the countable union of Jordan measurable sets need not be Jordan measurable, even when bounded. Show that the countable intersection of Jordan measurable sets need not be Jordan measurable.
* Ex 5.2 (Tao, ex 1.2.2). Give an example of a sequence of uniformly bounded, Riemann integrable functions on $[0,1]$ which converges pointwise to a function that is not Riemann integrable. Is it possible to give an example which converges uniformly?
* Ex 5.3. Show that $m^\*(A)\\leq m^{\*j}(A)$. Give an example of a set $A$ such that $m^\*(A)&lt;m^{\*j}(A)$.
* Ex 5.4. Show that Jordan outer measure does not satisfy countable subadditivity.
* Ex 6.1 (Tao, ex 1.2.5). Suppose $A$ is expressible as a countable union of pairwise almost disjoint boxes. Show that $m^\*(A)=m_{\*j}(A)$.

### Homework 2. Due Friday, September 8

* Ex 3.2 (see Tao, ex 1.1.5). Show that $A$ is Jordan measurable iff for all $\epsilon>0$ there is an elementary set $E$ such that $m^{\*j}(E\triangle A)&lt;\epsilon$.
* Ex 3.4 (Tao, ex 1.1.12). Say that $A$ is \emph{Jordan null} if $A$ is Jordan measurable and $m(A)=0$. Show that any subset of a Jordan null set is a Jordan null set.
* Ex 3.5. Show that the outer Jordan measure $m^{*j}(A)$ is equal to: inf{\vol(B\_1)+\cdots+\vol(B\_k) : B\_1,\ldots,B\_k are boxes and A\subset B\_1\cup\cdots\cup B\_k}.
* Ex 4.2 (Tao, ex 1.1.23). Let $f\colon[a,b]\to\RR$. Show that if $f$ is continuous, then $f$ is Riemann integrable. Show that if $f$ is bounded and piecewise continuous, then $f$ is Riemann integrable.
* Ex 4.3 (Tao, ex 1.1.24). Show that the Riemann integral satisfies the linearity and monotonicity properties. (Hint: first establish these properties for the pc integral.)

### Homework 1. Due Friday, September 1

* Ex 1.1. Show that the properties (a)--(c) of a measure imply finite addivitity: If $A$ and $B$ are disjoint then $m(A\cup B)=m(A)+m(B)$.
* Ex 1.2. Show that the properties (a)--(c) of a measure imply the inclusion--exclusion principle: For any sets $A,B$ we have $m(A\cup B)+m(A\cap B)=m(A)+m(B)$.
* Ex 1.3. Complete the details of the proof that if there is a measure on $\RR$ satisfying properties (a)--(c), then there is a measure on $[0,1)$ (with additional modulo $1$) satisfying properties (a)--(c).
* Ex 2.1 (Tao, ex 1.1.1). Show that the class of elementary sets is closed under the operations: union, intersection, set difference, symmetric difference, and translation.
* Ex 2.2. Prove the elementary measure satisfies the monotonicity and finite subadditivity properties.
